.TH XScreenSaver 1 "16-Dec-2011" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
avatars - a simple, cpu-friendly screensaver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B avatars
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-mono]
[\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-show \fIseconds\fP]
[\-blank \fIseconds\fP]
[\-fade \fIseconds\fP]
[\-image \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIavatars\fP program draws an avatar or a logo on a random position
on the screen. After a defined delay the image disappears just to show
up at a new position. Frames are precalculated at start, so the screensaver can
run for hours without eating up your cpu power.
.SH OPTIONS
.I avatars
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-show \fIseconds\fP
How long an avatar is displayed.  Default 6 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-blank \fIseconds\fP
How long the screen is blank between fading out and fading in.  Default 1 second.
.TP 8
.B \-fade \fIseconds\fP
How long fading in/out lasts.  Default 1 second.
.TP 8
.B \-image \fInumber\fP
Selects image to be used. Default 0. (0=Penguin, 1=Alien, 2=Your Logo)
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 by Dan Luedtke.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Dan Luedtke <mail@danrl.de>, based on code by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>.
